# Word definitions

# BinaryModule

BinaryModule means a binary format and its programmatic representations that represents intermediate code and various data related to them.
BinaryModule is defined in `src/old/bm/binary_module.bgn` and C++ code that handling BinaryModule are generated by brgen original C++ code generator.

# identifier

identifier(or `ident`) is a number that identify the object in the code uniquely.
for example, `DEFINE_VARIABLE`,`DEFINE_FIELD`,`DEFINE_FORMAT` and `DEFINE_FUNCTION` (etc...) have `ident`
also, expression such as `BINARY`,`UNARY`,`ACCESS` (etc..) have `ident`
and also, if some code want to point other code, like `BINARY` wants to know the lhs and rhs,
`ref` (or, `right_ref`,`left_ref`,`belong`,etc...) can be used. `ref` is a ident that represents other code.
BinaryModule uses indirect addressing via `BinaryModule.ident_indexes`.
for example, if you want to access the code referred by `Code.ref`, first you can lookup the code index
by `ident_indexes` then access to it.
indirect addressing makes reordering or modifying the code easy in transform phase

# transform the code

this refer the processes in `src/old/bmgen/transform.cpp` and `src/old/bmgen/transform/*`

# AbstractOp

AbstractOp is an enum that represents a intermediate binary instruction set op-code kind.
`Abstract` means these representations are `not` enough concrete to convert to low layer code.
AbstractOp defines several parts of programs, like format definition,

# fallback

a `fallback` block is a set of concrete operations related to an abstract operation.
the fallback block are defined using `DEFINE_FALLBACK_BLOCK` and `END_FALLBACK_BLOCK` and referred by `fallback` ref.
for example, some bit operation`ENCODE_INT 2bit`and`ENCODE_INT 6bit`in abstract operation are
hard to convert to language specific code. But there are`fallback`implementation that represents
these operation in simple binary operations (like`>>`and`&`) and assignments so that
the implementer only needs to implement these `>>`and`&` code (generator generator almost generates them)
